Welcome back.
In the previous video we learned about importing the data and using the pandas library to manipulate
our data offering.
Now let's learn a little bit more about this step which is to clean the data.
And in this case let's try to solve an interesting problem let's say that instead of this filtering
what we want to do or what our boss comes and tells us is that he or she wants to know well what players
are a good deal what players are the best in terms of skill but are also a lower salary so maybe we
can afford them better.
So let's say that the boss wants a few things from you if we go back to Kaggle here and look at our
data.
Actually have a link to all the columns that this data has and let's say our boss wants to find out
the current market value of the player and the wage.
So he or she wants to know which player is under valued right now and maybe we can offer we can grab
that player for a really good deal.
So while we want a graph from the data is the value the wage and obviously the name category of the
player.
Now if you want you can pause the video and tried to do this yourself.
Otherwise let's give it a go.
Let's create a new variable called a data frame one and this is going to grab using the panda's library.
The data frame method which will accept our previous data frame that we've grabbed which is our entire
CSP file.
So let's say data frame and then we're going to select as our second parameter the columns that we want.
In this case we can give it an array of columns that we want which will be name wage and then finally
value so let's just print.
Def 1 to see if this is working.
There you go.
Just like that we have the name wage and value of the player.
Holy moly messy messy has has quite a high wage.
That's a that's a nice wage.
All right let's keep going.
Now here's the next part.
We have this table but the data doesn't really mean anything to us right now.
Let's say we want to sort the data now because what we want to do is we want to compare each player's
wage with the value and have perhaps a different column called The Difference to see which player has
the biggest gap between their wage and their value.
Well let's let's try and give this a go.
Now ideally we can just create a different column by simply saying the F one we're going to add difference
and this different column is simply going to equal the data frame that we have built over here and it's
going to be the value minus the F one the wait.
Just like that now if I run this let's do the F1 and click Run Oh I get an error if I scroll all the
way down I see unsupported operant type S for minus so I'm trying to subtract a string and a string
and we've learned about this before right.
You can see over here that the wage of a player is in euros and they get paid a lot so sometimes you
have the M which is 4 million or K for the thousands so we need to convert this into an int right.
So we can do that quite easily again using Python now with this part.
You can try and solve this yourself and try to convert these values and wages to an integer and remove
the euro sine and the and or the K for the thousands or if you want to just do this quickly.
You can even google around because this is a common problem.
All you do is google for pandas convert String to int or in my case look at that googling around I found.
Convert the string two point nine zero K to this in Panda's data frame so it looks like they are asking
the exact same questions that we have.
And again as a developer you have to really learn to start googling and finding answers on your own
because most likely other people have the same questions you have.
Now if I scroll to the answer here you see that I get some answers that look overly complicated but
I really like this one so value to float.
So we're changing a value to a float.
We give it some sort of an X and that's it so this converts our value to float and you see here that
it replaces different things for us such as the K and the B.
So that's perfect.
Let's copy this and again I'll link to this resource so you can take a look for yourself.
If I go to r soccer let's enter the function that we have here.
Make sure that it's formatted properly so we now have the value to float function which is great.
If we go back to the the question here unfortunately they only remove the last item in the list and
not the beginning portion.
So we can just do that ourselves because we want to remove the euro sign as well so there's actually
a pretty easy way of doing this.
Using regex.
So let me show you.
We can do a wage variable that equals def 1 our data frame.
We're gonna grab the wage column let's make this a little bit bigger so you can see and this wage column
is going to be replaced and the replace method allows us to use regex.
So what we can do is we'll say that we want to remove the euro sign so let's just copy it from here.
Just like this.
With an empty string and then the third parameter is to just say Reg X equals to.
Now if you go to Reg X one to one dot com
and we copy while we just did.
So let's just copy this
if I do anything with a euro sign you see that it is highlighted over here.
That's what they regex does.
Again this is something that I just experimented with.
Trust me I don't remember this off the top of my head I just looked it up before this video so we replace
all the your signs with the empty string and then finally if we go to r stack overflow answer you remember
here that in order for us to use the value to float we just simply do not apply value to float.
So again if we go to our soccer we'll just say dot apply value to float which is why we have up here
and we can just do the same thing for the value as well.
So let's say value is going to equal value here and the same thing being applied.
And then finally with these new columns we can just update them by simply saying the F one wage is going
to equal wage and then data frame one value is going to equal value.
So because now these are going to be integers I can now run this minus operation and hopefully if we
didn't make any mistakes this should work.
Let's have a look.
All right.
Look at that we have a new difference column which just subtracts value from wage
awesome.
The last thing I want to do is to actually sort this so I can better understand it.
So let's do for the last part say sort values again.
Another thing that we get from pandas and we'll sort by the difference column and we'll say ascending
equals to false.
So we get the biggest difference first instead of lowest to highest.
So if I run this now look at that I get the players with the biggest difference all the way down to
the lowest players.
Very very cool so this was a bit of a longer video but I wanted to show you the idea of cleaning the
data that is we removed any unnecessary data we converted to types or clean things up in case we needed
anything.
And then perhaps even added extra information that we might need so that we can improve or get insights
about what we might want to do next.
Let's take a break and I'll see you in the next video.